kernelci.org: add blog with strategic update about the project (#332)
kernelci/kernelci-project: kernelci.org/content/en/blog/posts/2024/strategic-updates/index.md

## Enabling new infrastructure to run tests

Our legacy system has shown its age and it has been failing to meet the growing testing needs of the community. It is a quite limited, unstable python2 project that focuses on embedded hardware. We continue on the journey to put in place our new infrastructure, so we can finally move away from the legacy KernelCI system.

We bring good news! The new core service for running tests is already in place, but still going through a stabilization phase. So, the team is ramping up the number of tests slowly to deal with issues that arise especially when it comes to the quality of the testing KernelCI provides. We do not want to repeat past mistakes with results that can't really be trusted, so our focus right now is on quality rather than quantity. The team is iterating quickly on that process to enable open, wide adoption in the coming months.

> In our new KernelCI infrastructure, we already have support to run tests in labs (through [LAVA](https://www.lavasoftware.org/) only at the moment), VM, Docker containers and Kubernetes. Adding new labs or test environments should be relatively straightforward. Then, as we add more test environments, we are also laying down the foundation for integration with other CI systems across the community so we can share kernel builds and offer test environments.

Reviewer: minor: nitpick: I'd drop the VM part which I believe refers to the `shell` runtime. It doesn't spawn/submit any new job like the other runtimes - it just executes without setting up specific environment (VM is not a requirement).

```suggestion
In our new KernelCI infrastructure, we already have support to run tests in labs (through [LAVA](https://www.lavasoftware.org/) only at the moment), Docker containers, Kubernetes and natively. Adding new labs or test environments should be relatively straightforward. Then, as we add more test environments, we are also laying down the foundation for integration with other CI systems across the community so we can share kernel builds and offer test environments.
```

For that, we are forming a Community Engagement Working Group (WG). The working group will focus on connecting with maintainers to discuss and implement improvements in test quality for their subsystems and also act as a feedback recipient for improvements in our post-processing of the test results.

This is only a brief note, so a dedicated announcement of the Community Engagement WG will happen soon. If you are interested in participating, raise your hand!

## Where are we going from here?

As you can see, a lot is going on in KernelCI at the moment. The team is iterating quickly on the development of the new infrastructure, so we will be engaging with new maintainers and developers every month from now on, bringing them to the new infra and pushing the system limit further. If you are a maintainer and want to bring your tests to KernelCI please send us an email at [kernelci@lists.linux.dev](mailto:kernelci@lists.linux.dev).

> That’s all for now! Stay tuned for updates on topics discussed in this article. Likewise, as the new infrastructure stabilizes, expect a significant amount of documentation updates too.

Reviewer: minor:
```suggestion
That's all for now! Stay tuned for updates on topics discussed in this article. Likewise, as the new infrastructure stabilizes, expect a significant amount of documentation updates too.
```

(but I'm no typography expert)

> We thank all KernelCI member organizations and developer community who have been investing in the project over the years. It is only because of the continued support from our community that we are getting to making the legacy system a past story!

Reviewer: maybe:

```suggestion
We thank all KernelCI member organizations and developer community who have been investing in the project over the years. It is only because of the continued support from our community that we get to make the legacy system a past story!
```
(I'd ask a native speaker if this suggestion improves this bit or makes it worse)

We bring good news! The new core service for running tests is already in place, but still going through a stabilization phase. So, the team is ramping up the number of tests slowly to deal with issues that arise especially when it comes to the quality of the testing KernelCI provides. We do not want to repeat past mistakes with results that can't really be trusted, so our focus right now is on quality rather than quantity. The team is iterating quickly on that process to enable open, wide adoption in the coming months.

In our new KernelCI infrastructure, we already have support to run tests in labs (through [LAVA](https://www.lavasoftware.org/) only at the moment), Docker containers, Kubernetes and natively. Adding new labs or test environments should be relatively straightforward. Then, as we add more test environments, we are also laying down the foundation for integration with other CI systems across the community so we can share kernel builds and offer test environments.

> As we shared [before](https://kernelci.org/blog/posts/2023/api-early-access/), the new infrastructure expose an API for users to create accounts and drive test themselves. At the moment, we are focusing on enabling our own pipeline there, so we can shutdown the legacy system. But anyone is welcome to request a user account and try it out.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As we shared [before](https://kernelci.org/blog/posts/2023/api-early-access/), the new infrastructure exposes an API for users to create accounts and drive test themselves. At the moment, we are focusing on enabling our own pipeline there, so we can shut down the legacy system. But anyone is welcome to request a user account and try it out.
```

> As we shared [before](https://kernelci.org/blog/posts/2023/api-early-access/), the new infrastructure expose an API for users to create accounts and drive test themselves. At the moment, we are focusing on enabling our own pipeline there, so we can shutdown the legacy system. But anyone is welcome to request a user account and try it out.

Reviewer 3: The other thing you can do with the API which is at least as interesting is query results programatically - that's possibly interesting to more people (eg, for integrating KernelCI results into your workflow). How about "create accounts, query results and even drive tests themselves" (also s/test/tests/)?

Author: Sounds good. I pushed an update with this suggestion.

Another initiative from the KernelCI community is the [GitLab CI support in the mainline](https://lore.kernel.org/lkml/20240228225527.1052240-1-helen.koike@collabora.com/) kernel. Here, the goal is to offer maintainers a CI environment that they can manage themselves. With time, KernelCI API can be leveraged to provide a backend for builds and test runs for repositories using GitLab CI.

## Trusting tests results and reports

> On one end, we are stabilizing our new infrastructure to run the tests. On the other end, we are looking into improving the quality of the reports KernelCI sends out, so maintainers and developers can actually trust them. Given the huge amount of data coming out of test systems and bots today, we have to invest in improving the delivery of the results, or else, KernelCI will be contributing to increasing the maintainer burnout rather than helping solve it. That means improving the quality and confidence of the data, so maintainers and developers only receive reports packed with relevant information and no noise or false-positives.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On one end, we are stabilizing our new infrastructure to run the tests. On the other end, we are looking into improving the quality of the reports KernelCI sends out, so maintainers and developers can actually trust them. Given the huge amount of data coming out of test systems and bots today, we must invest in improving the delivery of the results, or else, KernelCI will be contributing to increasing the maintainer burnout rather than helping solve it. That means improving the quality and confidence of the data, so maintainers and developers only receive reports packed with relevant information and no noise or false-positives.
```
